Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion with the native image handling Java resources.
And we said that the idea is to use the class loader and basically tail Java at runtime that our resource
is somewhere on the class path.
So it becomes a platform independent way of locating the resources because class path, obviously when
you run your job application on any platform, it's mandatory to provide the class path and then class
loader gets system resource.
Then this is an internal JVM thing that knows how to locate and load the binaries of a of a resource
at runtime.
Right.
And we had this example.
Where we look at this resource demo and we loaded this run media search, we put it on the SR in the
Z directory, or we can put it in any package.
That's fine too.
But when you put it on run in the Z, obviously that's directly available on class path because Eclipse
ID copies it into the being directory of the project and then then it's and beam directory is where
the class path is going to be set in eclipse ID.
Right.
So this worked.
And we saw that when Wendy's works and we get you URL, obviously if the class loader was or Jim was
not able to find this underclass, but at runtime it returns a null objects we have to check for null
and then after that we say that how do we get the contents of this?
Because from the URL, basically what happens is that you can either get the file and then load it into
a scan as a file.
And we said that this is a bad idea because using the file means we tie ourselves to the underlying
operating system directory.
Right.
And that's not a good idea.
So and we saw that when we compile to native executable using file, it didn't work.
Right.
But if you use the open stream, what happens is that basically when you use use the class loader to
load the this file, the native compiler, the native image compiler actually at compile time because
it looks at this resource, it's able to find it on the class path at compile time.
Right.
It actually copies the entire binary content of this file.
Whatever it is is a text file.
Image file doesn't matter.
It copies it into the final native file.
Right.
So the binaries of this is already copied.
The question is how do we access those binaries?
Right.
Those bytes.
And we said that a scanner has a construct that accepts an input, a stream.
So in order to access the binary contents of a file of a resource, anything in Java, you use an input
stream, you open a stream of bytes that are fed to the Java.
And when we say it's input stream, it means it's a stream of bytes that are going into the gvm into
your runtime.
Right?
Output stream means it's a stream of bytes that go out of your JVM from JVM, from your application
to let's say to terminal to operating system, etc..
So with this URL, if we can locate it successfully and it's not null, we're going to obviously open
it up as a input stream and a scanner knows how to read the contents of a byte stream and convert it
to characterize.
And if you look at the constructor, this part constructor that accepts an input, a stream constructs
a new scanner that produces values, is scanned from a specified input is stream.
Bytes from the stream are converted into a characters using the underlying platform's default cache
set.
Right.
And we saw that as Canada actually has a another constructor that accepts the input stream and then
you can tell it what cache set you you're going to use, right?
So you can say that for name and then do something.
And actually I believe it accepts a string or you can also pass it.
So let's say UTF eight, right?
So if we run this, this is still going to work.
Nothing changes because there might platform default cache that is UTF eight, which is mostly on UNIX
based operating system.
I believe Windows uses a different default encoding.
Right.
So you have to be careful.
But again, when you don't specify, JVM is already aware of the underlying platforms cache set.
Right.
So that's the way that we we managed to make this code reading the contents of a resource and then interpret
it as characters completely platform independent.
This code will run and it never has any dependency on the underlying file system.
The directory names doesn't matter because at runtime, even if I bundle this as a jar, this code is
still going to work fine and I can show you.
So let's actually do this.
Let's right click and then export a jar.
We have a main method, so we want to export as a bell jar and then a resource demo.
That's the wrong configuration for this particular class resource demo.
And then we're going to put it remember the export destination is relative to your workspace, so the
project directory is Java on a Vmanage and we're going to put it inside the native directory and then
resource demo jar and copy record libraries into a subfolder next to generate a jar.
Let's go with this.
If in case you don't know if you have the license for the libraries or dependencies, just copy them
in a separate directory and it says that you have some compiler warning.
That's fine, no problem.
We have some warnings about unused.
So you see we have this resource demo lib util forge.
This is a dependency actually for another class which is on our class path, but this is our jar.
And so let's open a terminal here and we're going to see that.
So Java hyphen jar and then a resource demo that jar and it works fine.
Why?
Because if I look inside my jar, you see this run search is on the class path.
So if I look at the manifest, manifest provides the class path, one is the dot because when you reset
that, when you say java hyphen jar, actually what happens it's hyphen C P basically here a resource
demo, that jar, that's what happens, right?
The Java is a compressed.
Directory.
The gym knows how to read the contents inside the java, so you tell it.
The class path is my job directory.
This is just a compressed directory and then you give it domain class and in the manifest the main class
is already there.
Right?
So going back to the terminal and this is still works fine, right.
So because inside the manifest it says the current directory.
So we put the class path, the jar file and inside the manifest the JVM loads the manifest and configures
the class path again.
DOT means whatever the jar directory is and then resource demo lib util forge.
Right.
So obviously because this path is relative resource demo lib.
Then if we go to another directory and try to run our Java application from it, we probably won't succeed.
Let's try this.
So native.
It still works, right?
So nothing goes wrong here and again.
Java hyphen jar is a syntactic sugar for saying java hyphen class path the jar directory.
Right.
Jar file is just a directory.
It's a compressed directory.
All right.
And JVM just reads the manifest to see what's the main class and what's going to be the class path when
it loads the contents of the jar.
And this run MCT search is there at the top level of the class path because manifest says dot dot means
whatever is inside the jar directory right jar file.
So run mixture is there.
And remember if when we got this and you cannot load the contents of a file, a resource that is inside
the jar using the basically the file class and then let's pass it the you are so resource get file.
This is going to fail.
The reason is that right now it succeeds because it's not inside the jar.
When I run this from my eclipse ID, obviously it looks at the class path.
The file exists on my file system, but now if I export this again.
Everything is the same.
The file exists.
We want to overwrite it.
Okay.
And now let's go back to our directory native.
So we have the jar file.
So let's say Java hyphen jar resource demo.
The jar is going to file file not for an exception because if you look at the path, what happens to
the jar is this one resource demo the jar, exclamation mark.
And this is not a correct directory name for the underlying operating system.
That's why the terminal doesn't understand it.
Basically, when you delegate to file class, it tries to delegate to whatever file system is for the
operating system.
That's not a platform independent way.
So I recommend that you always get the always make your resources available on the class path and always
open up a input stream to them.
So resource open string.
This is still works fine it's completely platform independent.
EVM can load the binaries from jar directly and then a scanner understands the textual content of that
binary.
So again we right click export reasonable jar, everything is okay, let's overwrite and then okay and
now go back and java hyphen jar works fine.
Right.
And you see the the actual operating system path is this resource demo that your exclamation mark and
this is not correct this is something that the terminal doesn't understand it.
So for example, if I tell you to basically run me that message, it says that unknown command can I
seed into this exclamation mark directory?
And the answer is no, I cannot.
So exclamation mark doesn't work.
All right.
So and then we saw.
So let's delete this jar file.
And now we saw that when we compile this, let's open this binary.
Actually we're in the same directory.
So Java
Java Native Resource Demo.
This works fine, but the path is now different.
Why?
Because Native Image Compiler grabbed all the binary content of this file regardless of what the extension
is and copy them into the this executable file.
And now it says that from where?
Whatever the file is the root.
Basically this root for y slash means all the contents are inside the resource demo itself and the scanner
can open up a binary stream to them because those bytes are available in this right there is it doesn't
this native application doesn't require an extra file or something and it's kind of always can access
them and reinterpret them as characters.
So this works.
Now, if I open up a finder here and look at the size, this is 12.1 megabyte, right?
Obviously, the contents of this run me search file is pretty much zero byte.
I mean, probably if you buy it, so it doesn't matter.
So this 12.1 megabyte is completely coming from the JDK stuff.
Now notice what happens if I have a very large file.
Let's say I have this large file, the text.
I just grabbed some text and copied and pasted it many times.
It has about 200 lines of code, a text file, so I'm going to copy it into the Z.
And now it's available on the class path and I can load it right.
Large file dot txt.
Again, the rest of the code exactly works the same.
So if I run this, this is going to just print all the contents of this file and it's going to take
quite some time.
Right.
So I can permanent basically terminated.
Uh, but this code is still works.
Fine.
We're accessing the contents of these, and then the scanner reads all those bytes and interpret them
as as characters.
So notice now what happens if I compile this application?
First of all, the size of this text file is going.
So let's look at the size of this text file.
So the size of this large text file is 13.3 megabyte.
And we know that if we just compile a simple application like a hello world, the size is going to be
around 12 megabytes.
So why do we expect that when we actually compile this application that loads the contents of this large
text file?
The total size of the binary is going to be somewhere around 25 megabytes.
Why?
Because the native image realizes that you're loading a resource.
So we actually grabs the entire binary contents of this resource, this text file, and copies it into
the native image, the application, and I can prove it to you.
So first of all, we need to run because we are accessing a resource.
We have to run our Java Trace again.
So resource demo.
Let's run our Java Trace.
And we can just terminate it manually and then it creates the metal in native image.
And inside the resource config we're accessing this large file.
So and then this will be fed to the, um, basically the native compiler.
So just to, again, to, to reiterate, so right now the size of the compilation was 12.1 megabyte.
So let's see what happens after we.
Compile this application that loads a large resource file.
So let's select our resource demo and then run a native image.
So if everything goes well, we will see that there is a binary file generated which is huge.
It's now about 25 megabytes because 12 megabytes comes from the JDK stuff when you compile it to binaries
and then 13 megabyte comes just from the binaries of this large text file resource.
Right?
And all those binaries are copied into the native file, the executable file.
That's how you create a you compile a Java application that has external resource dependencies into
a single executable file that is completely it doesn't require any dependency.
Right.
So let's open up our terminal here.
First of all, let's make sure that we can run this.
Yes, everything works fine.
And you see, when you run it with JVM, it takes much more time to load all these tags.
But when you compile to native executable file, you see it ran much faster.
So that's another reason that you might consider compiling your application.
But now let's look at the size of this text file.
It's 25.4 megabyte, so 12.1 megabyte.
Let's write it down here.
12.1 megabyte was from JDK stuff.
And then this large text file.
Is 13.3 megabyte.
All right.
So 13.3 megabyte comes from the resource file.
So the total of this is 25.4 megabyte.
How much is the size of our native binary now?
It's 25.4 megabyte.
Exactly that.
So what this proves is that the native compiler actually grabs all the binaries of your resources and
copies them somehow into the final binary.
And then once you work with these open streams which read the binaries bytes by bytes, then your application
works just fine.
The final executable file is completely resource independent.
It has all the information that it needs and then it just runs just fine.
You don't need to provide these external resources as dependencies in addition to your binary.
So I believe this is a very nice feature that this provides for, for example, for C++ applications.
I don't think there is an easy way to implement this kind of behavior, which means all the resources
get copied into the final executable file for C++ application.
You always see that there is a executable file, but there are a lot of resources, images, etc. But
here you see that for a job application, the Native Image compiler provides a way which actually relies
on the features that the GVM provides, right?
This class loader feature which loads binaries of any resource at runtime, and then the other classes
that can work with input, a stream which means a stream of bytes, and then they can read it and then
basically
interpret those bytes in any way.
Right?
For example, an image file is also a stream of bytes.
Then you interpret it differently.
Right.
And this is a very nice feature that I believe the native image has.
And again, I want you to look at the difference in the time.
So if I run this within the eclipse using the Java, you see it takes some time, right?
It's not very fast, but it ends on the terminal.
If I run the compiler version, it's much faster.
It's I would say it's at least a5x faster, like five times faster.
So I hope you enjoyed this lecture and now have a solid understanding of how to include or embed all
the resources that your Java application needs in the final executable file.
I recommend that you always try this way.
It makes the size of your binary larger, but then everything is self-contained.
You don't worry about if somebody else runs this application on another computer, things might break
or not work.
Every all the contents, everything that your application needs is already inside the final binary file.
So I hope you enjoyed this one.
Please stay tuned and I'll see you the next one.